[SRVOCF-522, SRVOCF-523] Add docs on liveness and readiness probes for functions (#63975)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/serverless-quarkus-functions-overriding-liveness-readiness.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies
//
// * functions/reference/serverless-developing-quarkus-functions.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="serverless-quarkus-functions-overriding-liveness-readiness_{context}"]
= Overriding liveness and readiness probe values

You can override `liveness` and `readiness` probe values for your Quarkus functions. This allows you to modify the timing of health checks performed on the function.

.Prerequisites

* The {ServerlessOperatorName} and Knative Serving are installed on the cluster.
* You have installed the Knative (`kn`) CLI.
* You have created a function by using `kn func create`.

.Procedure

> . Add the `readinessProbe` and `livenessProbe` sections with new time values to the `container` section of the `func.yaml` file:

Reviewer: Also maybe it could have some "see also" section that links or point developer to the quarkus docs https://quarkus.io/guides/smallrye-health about health checks.

// Module included in the following assemblies
//
// * functions/reference/serverless-developing-quarkus-functions.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="serverless-quarkus-functions-overriding-liveness-readiness_{context}"]
= Overriding liveness and readiness probe values

You can override `liveness` and `readiness` probe values for your Quarkus functions. This allows you to modify the timing of health checks performed on the function.

.Prerequisites

* The {ServerlessOperatorName} and Knative Serving are installed on the cluster.
* You have installed the Knative (`kn`) CLI.
* You have created a function by using `kn func create`.

.Procedure

> . Override the `/health/liveness` and `/health/readiness` paths with your own values. You can do this either by changing properties in the function source or by setting the `LIVENESS_URL` and `READINESS_URL` environment variables.

Reviewer: Here the environment variable are QUARKUS_SMALLRYE_HEALTH_LIVENESS_PATH and QUARKUS_SMALLRYE_HEALTH_READINESS_PATH ...

suggestion:
```suggestion
. Override the `/health/liveness` and `/health/readiness` paths with your own values. You can do this either by changing properties in the function source or by setting the `QUARKUS_SMALLRYE_HEALTH_LIVENESS_PATH` and `QUARKUS_SMALLRYE_HEALTH_READINESS_PATH` environment variables on `func.yaml` file.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies
//
// * functions/reference/serverless-developing-quarkus-functions.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="serverless-quarkus-functions-overriding-liveness-readiness_{context}"]
= Overriding liveness and readiness probe values

> You can override `liveness` and `readiness` probe values for your Quarkus functions. This allows you to modify the timing of health checks performed on the function.

Reviewer 2: WDYM by timing?

Author: @matejvasek Good catch, I did `s/modify the timing of/configure/` in all three sections.

.Prerequisites

> * The {ServerlessOperatorName} and Knative Serving are installed on the cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The {ServerlessOperatorName} and Knative Service are installed on the cluster.
```
See my earlier question to check if you really meant `Serving` instead of `Service`.

Author: Again, it's `Serving` in this case.

* You have installed the Knative (`kn`) CLI.
* You have created a function by using `kn func create`.

.Procedure

. Override the `/health/liveness` and `/health/readiness` paths with your own values. You can do this either by changing properties in the function source or by setting the `QUARKUS_SMALLRYE_HEALTH_LIVENESS_PATH` and `QUARKUS_SMALLRYE_HEALTH_READINESS_PATH` environment variables on `func.yaml` file.
+
To override the paths using the function source, update the path properties in the `src/main/resources/application.properties` file:
+
[source]
----
quarkus.smallrye-health.root-path=/health <1>
quarkus.smallrye-health.liveness-path=alive <2>
quarkus.smallrye-health.readiness-path=ready <3>
----
<1> The root path, which is automatically prepended to the `liveness` and `readiness` paths.
<2> The liveness path, set to `/health/alive` here.
<3> The readiness path, set to `/health/ready` here.
+
To override the paths using environment variables, define the path variables in the `build` block of the `func.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
build:
  builder: s2i

>   buildEnvs:

Reviewer 2: I believe these are run-time, not build-time envs, but let me check to be sure.

Reviewer 2: Hm It is in fact build-time env.

Reviewer 2: Surprising to me a little.

  - name: QUARKUS_SMALLRYE_HEALTH_LIVENESS_PATH
    value: alive <1>
  - name: QUARKUS_SMALLRYE_HEALTH_READINESS_PATH
    value: ready <2>
----
<1> The liveness path, set to `/health/alive` here.

> <2> The readiness path, set to `/health/ready` here.

Reviewer 2: Could be better emphasis these as two disjoint option? For instance make them to be two list items (a and b), or maybe tabs?

Reviewer 2: ```
Override the /health/liveness and /health/readiness paths with your own values. You can do this either by changing properties in the function source (a) or by setting the QUARKUS_SMALLRYE_HEALTH_LIVENESS_PATH and QUARKUS_SMALLRYE_HEALTH_READINESS_PATH environment variables on func.yaml file (b).

a) To override the paths using the function source, update the path properties in the src/main/resources/application.properties file:

b)To override the paths using environment variables, define the path variables in the build block of the func.yaml file:
```

Author: Thanks for the review @matejvasek !
Made the necessary modifications.
